.TH MONITOR 1 "23 September 2011" Linux "FPAC Operator's Manual"
.SH NAME 
monitor \- FPAC ax.25 traffic monitor.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B monitor [-c] [-a] [-r] [-t] [-p port] [-h] [-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Monitor
starts a full screen session to monitor all ax.25 traffic.
It displays standard AX.25, PE1CHL extended AX.25, NET/ROM,
Rose, ARP, IP, ICMP, TCP and UDP. It also displays IP, TCP, ICMP, TCP
and UDP encapsulated within NET/ROM frames. The program also displays
AX.25 and IP encapsulated within an IP frame.
.P
Monitor is similar to axlisten except that is is exited by a CR.
.P
Monitor attempts to decode the more common network protocols.
RSPF and RIP (both normal and G8BPQs RIP98) are traced.
JNOS style NET/ROM node polls are also displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 13
.BI \-8
Required for the -i parameter to work. Indicates that the terminal is capable 
of printing 8-bit characters.
.TP 13
.BI \-a 
Enable the monitoring of outgoing frames as well as incoming ones.
.TP 13
.BI \-c 
Enable Color support
.TP 13
.BI \-h 
Dump the data portion of the packet in both  hexadecimal and
ASCII. The default is to display data as ASCII only.
.TP 13
.BI \-i
Map IBM codepage 437 characters 128-158 to their ISO-Latin-1
equivalents.  Only valid when used with the -8 and -c parameters.
.TP 13
.BI "\-p port"
Displays a single port.
.TP 13
.BI \-r       
Display the data portion in a "readable" fashion for tracing plaintext AX.25 traffic.
CR-LF  conversion is included.
.TP 13
.BI \-t 
Timestamp each frame
.TP 13
.BI \-v
Display Version
.SH COMMANDS
.TP 13
.BI CR  
End the session.		
.SH AUTHOR
Bernard Pidoux F6BVP <bernard.f6bvp@gmail.com>
